Ladies and gentlemen, a very warm
welcome to ICICI Lombard General
Insurance Company Limiteds Q1 FY2026
earnings conference call
from the senior management. We have with
us today Mr. Sanjie Mantri MD and CEO of
the company. Mr. Gopal Balachandran,
CFO,
Mr. Anand Singhi, Chief Retail and
Government Business. Mr. Girish Nayak,
Chief Technology and Health Underwriting
and Claims.
Mr. Sep Gorada, chief corporate
solutions international bank assurance.
And Mr. Gorov Aurora, Chief Reinsurance,
Underwriting and Claims for Property and
Casualty.
Please note that any statements commence
are made in today's call that may look
like forward-looking statements are
based on information presently available
to the management and do not constitute
an indication of any future performance
as future involves risks and
uncertainties which could cause results
to differ materially from the current
views being expressed.
As a reminder, all participant clients
will be in the listenonly mode and there
will be an opportunity for you to ask
questions after the presentation
concludes.
Should you need assistance during the
call, please signal an operator by
pressing star then zero on your
touchstone phone.
I now hand the conference over to Mr.
Sanjiv Mantri, MD and CEO ICIC Lombard
General Insurance Limited. Thank you and
over to you sir. Thank you so much. Uh
good evening to each one of you. Thank
you for joining the earnings conference
call of ICL Lombard General Insurance
Company for quarter 1 2026.
Let me give you a brief overview of the
trends we observed in the economy as
well as our industry followed by an
overview of the business. Post this our
CFO Mr. Gopal Balachand will share the
financial performance of the company for
the quarter ended June 30, 2025.
India's GDP growth for quarter 4
financial year 2025 surprised positively
at 7.4% 4% and the fullear growth came
in at 6.5% according to according to the
data released by Mosby.
Key macroeconomic indicators such as GST
collections and performance of
infrastructure sector indicate some
positive momentum for quarter 1
financial year 2026.
RV's cut in the repo rate by 50 basis
point in early June 2025. income tax
incentives by government and benign
inflation is expected to augur well for
the domestic economy.
Let me now dwell on certain industry
trends which can have an impact on the
GI industry at large.
In the current quarter, the government's
continued emphasis on infrastructure
deployment by has fueled growth across
key sectors such as cement, steel,
infrastructure and capital goods. With
the banking sector remaining healthy and
capital utili and capacity utilization
exceeding historical norms, any increase
in domestic demand could serve as a
catalyst for private capital
expenditure. These factors present a
positive outlook for the commercial and
of business in coming quarters.
In quarter 1 2026, as per the data
published by CM, private car and two
wheeler segment debrew by 1 and a half%
and 7.2% and 2% Y respectively.
However, in quarter 1 financial year
2026, basis the data published by FA
auto industry has grown by 4.9%.
The private car segment grew by 2.6%
registering.97 million sales. The two
builder segment has been seen a modest
growth of 5% contributed by contributed
by both urban and rural consumers.
As the monsoon is forecasted to be
normal, we anticipate that it will
further fuel the rural demand.
Commercial vehicle has seen a growth of
7% which was led by strong growth in
electric three-wheeler category.
As an organization, we remain optimistic
for the motor business in coming months.
The health segment remains the largest
contributor to the industry accounting
for 40.2% of the GDPI mix in quarter 1
2026.
Rising hiring activity, escalating
medical cost and sustained credit growth
are the key drivers fueling continued
demand for health insurance.
However, the overall industry growth
trajectory continues to be a to be
moderated by the impact of the one by
accounting norm.
Despite this, the fundamentals of the
health insurance segment remain strong,
positioning it as a critical pillar of
long-term industry growth.
Given the favorable economic indicators
and positive regulatory environment, we
expect the general insurance industry to
continue the growth momentum in medium
to long term.
However, we remain vigilant on the
ongoing geopolitical developments which
may pose risk to both global growth and
Indian economy.
Let me now share on an update on key
industry level events.
Happy to share that recently launched
campaign ATA insurancea is an
commendable step by the general
insurance industry towards enhancing
awareness and consequently increasing
insurance penetration across diverse
customer segments.
This unified effort reflect the sector's
growing commitment to driving financial
protection and resilience in India. As
one of the leading players in this
industry, ICL Lombard is well placed to
contribute and benefit from the same.
Another key event wherein the country
was deeply affected was a tragic Air
India plane crash.
We extend a sincere condolences to the
families who lost their loved ones. An
event of this magnitude can have
profound effect on all those involved.
As an industry and as an insurer, we
responded swiftly prioritizing and
supporting the affected family members
and other stakeholders during these
difficult times.
Now coming to the industry performance
for quarter 1 financial year 2026,
the GDPI grew by 8.8% 8% for quarter 1
2026.
Excluding the impact of the 1 byN
accounting norm, the GDPI grew by 12.8%
for quarter 1 2026.
Excluding crop and massel, the GDPI grew
by 11.1% for quarter 1 2026.
Speaking on the specific segments within
the industry, the commercial segment
reported a growth of 13% for the period
ending quarter 1 financial year 2026.
The growth is majorly driven by improved
pricing and property lines of business.
The motor segment grew for the indust
growth for the industry stood at 8.7%
for the period quarter 1 2026.
The industry continues to witness
significant pricing pressure as
reflected by higher industry combined
ratio for the motor line of business.
The health segment including mass health
grew by 8.1% for the period quarter 1
2026. Within this the group health line
of business grew by 9.6% for quarter 1
whereas the retail health growth stood
at 9.4% for quarter 1 2026 impacted by
the 1 byN accounting norm.
Speaking on the underwriting performance
of the industry overall the combined
ratio for the industry worsened to
112.6% for financial year 2025 as
against 112% for financial year 2024.
The overall combined ratio for private
players worsened to 111.4 for financial
year 2025 from 108.7% for financial year
2024.
Industry combined worsening was largely
due to motor line and of business. It
stood at 123.7%
for financial year 2025 with 118.5%
for financial year 2024.
As against this our continued focus on
driving profitable growth has helped us
to show a combined ratio of 102.8 for
financial year 2025 versus 103.3% for
financial year 2024.
Also, it is pertinent to note that the
company's contribution to overall
underwriting losses is at 2.7%
only with a vis and 8.7% market share
for financial year 2025.
I will now speak about a company's
performance across key business in
quarter 1 financial year 2026.
The company's GDP registered a growth of
6% as against the industry growth of
8.8% 8% for quarter 1 2026.
Excluding crop and mass health, the
company's growth was at 3.4% compared to
the industry growth of 11.1%
for quarter 1 2026.
In the commercial line segment, our
growth stood at 6.8% for quarter 1 2026
as again the industry growth of 13% for
the same period. Well, the industry has
seen an improvement in pricing at an
overall level. However, there have been
different levels of price action within
subcategories of commercial lines. We
continue to drive profitability through
food and risk selection and
distributionled growth. We have
maintained a leadership leadership
position in engineering and marine cargo
line of business.
In the motor segment, our growth stood
at 3.2% for quarter 1 2026 as against
the industry growth of 8.7%.
In the backdrop of elevated competitive
intensity, as stated earlier, we
continue to drive our strategy in motor
insurance based on granular portfolio
segmentation and distribution expansion.
We continue to maintain a leadership
position with a market share of 10.5%
for quarter 1 2026.
Our portfolio mix for private car,
two-wheeler, and commercial vehicles
stood at 54.8%,
27% and 18.2% 2% respectively in
comparison to the mix of quarter 1 2025
which stood at 51.5%
26% and 22.5% respectively.
In health segment we grew by 1.9% for
quarter 1 2026 as against the industry
growth of 8.1%
as at quarter 1 2026 on a 1 byN basis.
Our retail health business line
continued to maintain the growth
momentum pursuant to which we have
gained the market share. We registered a
growth of 32.2%
as against industry growth of 9.4% as at
quarter 1 2026. The continued innovation
in retail health products and investment
in retail health distribution has helped
us to increase market share which now
stands at 3.5% for quarter 1 2026 as
against 2.9% for quarter 1 2025.
Our group health segment degree by 2.5%
for quarter 1 2026 when compared with
quarter 1 2025
resulting in a market share being at
10.1%.
This was essentially attributable
to lower growth in our group benefit
segment due to muted credit disbursement
coupled with impact of one byan
accounting norms.
would now like to apprise you of other
key initiatives of our organization.
The initiatives under one team continue
to deliver measurable results
underscoring our commitment to
sustainable and profitable growth at the
organization level. A key initiative in
this journey has been the consolidation
of our customerf facing call center into
a unified one call center aimed at
standardizing practices, enhancing
operational efficiencies and delivering
a superior customer experience through
strategic technology interventions.
The integration of process under this
initiative resulted in a 78% increase in
productivity for quarter 1 2026 along
with reduction in headcounts of the
fresh acquisition team and service team
at 22% and 10% respectively.
Our digital service engagement has gone
up to 38% in quarter 1 2026 up from 22%
in quarter 1 2025.
This was made possible through use of
artificial intelligence, voice bot,
propensity modeling and targeted
campaigns.
We further improved our efficiency in
motor claims. Our preferred partner
network serviced 74.6%
of our nonEM claims in quarter 1 2026 up
from 72% in quarter 1 2025.
Launch launched in April of 2024. Our is
Sahayak initiative has strengthened on
ground claim support for our health
customers.
In quarter 1 2026, the initiative
assisted over 28,000 customers,
reflecting an increase from 8,000
customers supported in quarter 1 of
2025.
This growth highlights a continued focus
on enhancing the customer experience and
delivering timely accessible support
during the critical moments.
Our digital platform continues to aid
our growth with visitors increasing 21%
yearonear and increase in fresh business
by 69% yearonear. This is fueled by a
one-stop solution. health take care app
for all insurance and wellness needs
which surpassed 16.6 million downloads.
Our focus on customer experience and
process efficiency has led to an NPS of
68 and 69 for health and motor claims
respectively for financial year 2025.
We have demonstrated resilience amidst
industry challenges. Maintaining a focus
on profitability
guided by our one team philosophy, we
continue to harness the power of data
technology and innovation to drive our
progress. Our robust multi-product
multi-distribution strategy allow us to
adopt swiftly and serve our customers
more effectively while delivering
profitable growth. I will now request
Gopage to take you through the financial
numbers for the recently concluded
quarter. Thanks Ajivie uh and good
evening to each one of you. I will now
give you a brief overview of the
financial performance of the recently
concluded quarter. We have uploaded the
results presentation on our website and
you can access it as we walk you through
the performance numbers. With effect
from October 1, 2024, long-term products
are accounted on a 1 byN basis as
mandated by Idi. Hence, Q1 FI26 numbers
are not comparable with prior periods.
Please refer to our investor
presentation for further details. The
gross direct premium income of the
company was rupes 77.35 billion in Q1
FI26 as against rupees 76.88 88 billion
in Q1 FI25 a growth of6%
as against the industry growth of 8.8%.
Excluding crop and mass sales GDPI
growth of the company was 3.4% viz with
the industry growth of 11.1% in Q1 and
FI26.
Our GDPI growth during the quarter was
primarily driven by growth in the
preferred segments. The overall GDP of
our property and casualty segment grew
by 6.8% 8% to rupees 26.77 billion in Q1
FI26 as against rupees 25.08 billion in
Q1 FI25. On the retail side of the
business, the GDPI of the motor segment
was at rupes 24.44 billion in Q1 FI26 as
against rupees 23.69 billion in Q1 FI25
registering a growth of 3.2%.
The advanced premium numbers for the
motor segment was at 38.07 07 billion
rupees as at June 30, 2025 as against
37.17 billion as at March 31, 2025.
GDP of the health segment was at rupes
23.81 billion in this quarter as against
rupes 23.37 billion in Q1 last year
registering a growth of 1.9%. Our agents
which includes the point of sale
distribution count was at 1 1 lakh
43,675
as at June 30 up from 1 lakh 40,736.
This was the number as at March 31 2025.
Our combined ratio stood at 102.9%
for Q1 FI26
as against 102.3%
for Q1 FI25. Our investment assets
during the quarter rose to rups 554.53
billion as at June 30, 2025 up from rups
535.08 billion as at March 31, 2025. Our
investment leverage net of borrowings
remained the same at 3.74 times as at
June 30, 2025 and as at March 31 2025.
Investment income was at rupees 12.88 88
billion in Q1 FI26
as against rupes 11.28 billion in Q1
FI25.
Our capital gains net of impairment on
investment assets stood at rupees 3.8
billion in Q1 FI26 compared to rupees
2.84 billion in Q1 FI25. Our profit
before tax grew by 28.4% to rupees 9.94
billion in Q1 FI26 as against rupees
7.74 billion in Q1 FI25.
Consequently, profit after tax grew by
28.7% to rupees 7.47 billion in Q1 FI26
as against rupees 5.8 billion in Q1
FI25. Return on average equity was at
20.5% in Q1 FI26 as against 19.1% in Q1
FI25. Solveny ratio was at 2.7 times as
at June 30, 2025 as against 2.69 times
as at March 31, 2025. This continues to
be higher than the minimum regulatory
requirement of 1.5 times.
As I conclude, I would like to reassure
that we remain committed and focused on
our strategy of innovation and driving
profitable growth, consistent and
sustain sustainable value creation for
all our stakeholders while continually
ensuring that the interest of the
industry and our policy holders is in
the forefront at all times. Thank you
and we'll be open to take questions.
>> Thank you very much. We will now begin
the question and answer session. Anyone
who wishes to ask questions may press
star and one on the touchstone
telephone. If you wish to remove
yourself from the question queue, you
may press star and two. Participants are
requested to use handsets while asking
questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we will
wait for a moment while the question Q
assembles.
To ask questions, please press star and
one.
First question is from Nishan Chawati
from Kota. Please go ahead.
>> Uh yeah hi uh thanks for uh taking my
question. Uh my my question is actually
on the commercial lines of uh you know
businesses. Uh you know somewhere at the
beginning you mentioned that uh pricing
has improved uh in this segment but uh I
think at the same time you also said
that you know there are different levels
of pricing and as I see you have kind of
you know shrunk the market share a
little bit in this segment. uh so just
curious what is your view on this
segment and uh do you expect this to be
uh you know a profitability accretive uh
in this financial year.
>> Sure. I think thanks Dishit for your
question. Uh the simple answer is I mean
uh overall yes with the overall
sentiments and pricing getting better we
do expect it to be more profitable. If
you remember uh last year when we were
you know reaching out in every possible
quarter we had spoken about the
excessive uh uh intensity and aggression
on the pricing front. Uh certainly
there's a bit of a semblance overall. Uh
but uh we also said along with the
multiple sections and competitive
intensity that we have seen what we have
done is distributionled growth primarily
because on the larger corporate side or
the larger risk still there has been
some bit of a aggressive pricing which
has come in. We've done what is required
uh to drive profitable growth for us. uh
your your seek on do you expect it to
continue? Uh our firm belief is yes uh
and what market is doing at this point
is pricing risk appropriately uh which
was not happening otherwise in the
previous year.
>> So this should actually be kind of you
know profitability accretive this year
is what we are trying to say.
>> I mean it's very difficult to forecast
the simple answer is pricing improves it
should be better than what it is. Uh but
you know fire as a business plan has to
play out over quarters because it's
driven by very low frequency and very
high severity. Uh but it should be
profitive. It should be profitable
overall. My answer is yes. Uh but it
will have to play out because it's
driven by extreme losses as and when it
happens if it happens.
>> Uh yes of course. Uh the other question
is uh you know on the loss ratio in the
health business uh if you could uh help
help us uh you know split it between the
uh you know retail and the uh group
business.
>> So nent uh uh I'm giving the group
numbers first which is corporate health
Q1 last year was 97.9. This is the last
year Q1 97.9 that number for Q1 this
year is at 95.7.
uh on the retail intermittity again
similar periods. Q1 last year was 72.5.
Q1 this year is 74.3.
>> Uh got it. Thank you. Thank you very
much and all the best.
>> Thanks. Thank you.
>> Thank you. The next question is from
Madukar Lada from Noama Wealth
Management. Please go ahead.
Yeah,
we
>> seem to have lost the line for Madukar.
We'll move to the next question. The
next question is from P Jane from Motila
Oswald. Please go ahead.
>> Yeah, just uh just a follow up on the
loss ratio of the retail health. Uh you
you mentioned it's gone up from 72.5
to 74.3.
Given that we would have had a very
strong growth on the fresh premium uh
would you say that the severity and the
frequency of uh retail indemnity has
gone up substantially?
So pra I think if you remember even last
year first quarter we did kind of talk
about a slight increase in incidences.
Uh so we do see that playing out even
for quarter one of this year. So there
has been definitely an increase in uh
incidents but um as you would have seen
when we even when we started the last
year quarter one number was 72.5
but by the time we ended if you would
have seen the number on a full year
basis our retailers loss ratio ended at
about 67.9
>> uh so and exactly to your point I think
what's helping us is uh the growth that
we are seeing uh largely kind of aided
by the ele elevate product offering that
we have been talking about I think that
continues to kind do well and therefore
this is just quarter one and our
expectation is pretty much in line with
the range of loss ratios that we have
spoken. I think in all fairness the
expectation is that we should kind of uh
end the end the year in that same loss
ratio range of 65 to 70%. That the range
that's the range at which we are
comfortable with and as of now I think
things seems to be pretty much looking
around uh within that range. uh this is
just a quarter one uh phenomenon
>> just uh and again the 32% growth that
you have seen on the retail retail
health uh how much would you add how
much of that would be say portability
and how much would it be from uh say you
know first-time customers to the
industry can you give some qualitative
comments there because uh that will help
us understand the quality of business
>> so pre in general I think if you look at
it I think our market share has very low
right so I think uh as a company we have
had an aggregate market share of 2.9 I
think we have moved the needle which is
what we talked about to move at about
3.5%.
And the endeavor for us is to obviously
kind of make sure that again if you
remember last quarter four we did speak
about the initiative that we're trying
to do on retaining our own customers. So
therefore in that sense obviously that's
a that's an area where we are actively
focusing on so that we are able to kind
of improve our own retentions and two
again the objective will be to try and
see if we can get more customers
particularly which are new to insurance.
uh to your point on what could be the
extent of portability we don't
separately call out that number but I
think clearly from our standpoint I
think what we can talk about is on a
relative basis I think the proportion of
what we would have seen as a rollover
whether it is quarter 1 or quarter 4 of
last year visibly what we have seen in
quarter 1 I think definitely that mix is
lower
>> okay and uh just coming back to the uh
the motor segment
uh what is your thoughts on motor DP
price Do you think that can come
through?
>> So, hi P Sanjie.
We are also as much aware as you are.
There is enough and more news that we
can uh we are you know ourselves seeing
that something is expected. Has the
industry made the representation? Answer
is yes. Uh uh but we would not have any
update beyond that. Uh but it's it's
it's it's kind of expected. uh but uh in
our working and in our thought process
and in our sourcing the way we operate
we take things as they exist at this
point of time where there is no TP hike
uh but we we must share the optimism
which is there overall that since for
last four years almost there's been very
little that has happened on the TP side
uh some uh increase
uh would be a relief for the industry
overall
>> just Follow up on that can it happen
without a chairperson and the
regulators?
>> So uh the manner in which it gets
announced is more in consultation with
IDA. So uh it can happen technically but
again this is something which is beyond
our ambit and we don't want to you know
further uh dwell on this uh structurally
from whatever it's uh known to us it's
possible. I mean goal any views on this?
No, I think the only other thing that I
would add uh Pesh is I think uh
definitely what warrants a price
increase. I think this is what I think
the industry has been largely looking at
as in for example and again similar to
what we have been speaking which is when
we see court compensation or court award
getting exhibited and the element of uh
uh claim inflation that you're required
to build as a part of the loss cost.
Definitely there is every reason for us
to believe that uh one should definitely
seek a price change. Exactly when will
it happen? How would how it would get
notified? I think honestly we'll have to
wait for it. But there is definitely a
case for the industry to seek a price
increase given the fact that for the
last few years uh we have not
necessarily seen in that sense a
meaningful price increase on third
party.
>> Thank you. The next question is from
Shank Gora from Aventis Park. Please go
ahead.
>> Yeah. And thank you for the opportunity.
See the fire growth for for us has been
lower compared to industry and and we we
invariably are the market leaders after
probably new in that business. So, so
just just wanted to understand that
given given the bulk of the business
happens in first quarter in in
commercial lines is it fair to say that
um maybe because of the pricing
environment um uh our expected growth
which was maybe meaningfully very higher
will remain at the current levels for
the full year.
>> Fair question. uh
I if it is uh something which you have
to think as a trend I believe bar growth
can also increase uh overall in coming
quarters but the bulk of the booking
booking does happen in first quarter to
that extent mathematically speaking uh
you are right uh however progressively
last year the discounting kept
increasing as quarters kept happening
right so the market kept hitting new
levels of discount so to that extent if
there is some assemblage that is coming
in the industry should show further
positive trend as far as Yi growth is
concerned and in line with that we would
also like to believe and back ourselves
to say that we will also see that
positive trend continuing. However,
whether we will be able to bridge the
delta that is existing in quarter one uh
that our endeavor obviously is uh to get
that managed over quarters and see that
we stay where we want to be.
It will be purely a function of uh how
the pricing elements are working out in
different sections and we will take a
call accordingly.
Got it. Got it. And and the second thing
which I wanted to understand is that if
I look at the motor growth based on the
mix what you disclosed in the PPT it
seems that you you degrrew largely in
the commercial vehicles while while your
growth in two wheelers and cars looks
okay compared to overall growth. So, so
is it largely because of the um
intensive competitive environment or or
or or we recalibrating compared to what
we did last year um in that line of
business.
>> Uh no s I think you're again spot on. Uh
see beginning of the year again the
normal inflation and all of that comes
through in our respective loss ratios
that is expected to happen. uh and if
there's no TP hike it does make uh the
overall maps adverse and and logically
speaking the cost of acquisition to that
extent should get adjusted so that uh
the TPI if it's not there still the
overall map falls in place uh we did
realize that the market overall did not
change the trajectory and we felt to be
a bit more prudent uh at this point of
time you you are spot on SK yes that's
what is reflective of uh it is not that
uh we don't want to uh do the right
thing and see CV also showing positivity
but uh it's purely a function of
selection which has made us uh come out
the way we have come out in terms of
outcome but we don't want to do it and
you know that sank is at the cost of
profitability
yes so basically in simple words if if
if there is a price like say in couple
of months um then it trade to say that
you you might see a pullback or or a
better growth in in CV segment. So the
again the function is uh uh it's it's a
function of how the market reacts
further suppose I'm just giving a
scenario the simple answer to what you
said is logically yes
it should work out what you're saying
but supposedly the market reacts again
much more sharply and ends up throwing a
lot more money
>> in terms of cost acquisition we will
again end up calibrating so
logically what you're saying should But
we'll have to wait till it plays out.
>> Got it. Got it. Perfect. And and last
one, crop insurance 1425 crores what we
did last year. Um uh today today we are
doing just 18 crores in the current
quarter. Maybe timing difference. So
given given you mentioned in the PPD
that you won few clusters. So so is it
fair to say that there will be
year-on-year growth in the crop business
in the current year?
>> Uh yearon-year growth difficult to
enide. See for crop most of the things
will come up for bidding next financial
year. This year there are very few
actions. So as luck would have it the
Maharashtra where we were already there
and this year should have lasted has
gone for retendering consequent to which
we had to rebuild. Uh whether we'll be
able to match it or grow only time will
tell but not too many opportunities at
this point of time uh to see that we can
exceed that number at least at this
juncture.
Yeah,
>> thank you.
>> All right.
>> The next question is from Nidesh Jane
from Investeech. Please go ahead.
>> Uh, hi sir. Uh, thanks for the
opportunity. So my question is on
competitive intensity. So which are
these players who are uh who are
engaging in intense competitive
competition in at this point in time. uh
because uh last time these were mostly
private sector players but this time if
you look at the data industry data the
market share gain is happening from PSU
players.
>> So what is driving that and uh how do
you see that ending up? Uh last time
couple of players have so shown very
high losses and then competitive
intensity reduces for one year but again
we are again seeing that competitive
intensity is increasing. So how do you
see this play plays out and what are the
timelines let's say when when this will
taper off.
So DH I think the way I think we would
respond is uh I think all of this
thankfully is public information.
Therefore I think the market clearly
knows which companies are aggressive
which companies are kind of gaining
market share. So uh without specifically
kind of getting into names u I think
this is all there in the public domain.
I think all that I which is what we kind
of put out as a part of the uh opening
transcript as in to say that and which
is which is what we called out even last
year. I think on motors specifically if
you would have seen honestly there was
an expectation last year for the
industry to actually see an improvement
in combined uh which if you remember
kind of kind of finally ended the year
with a combined ratio of almost 124% for
the industry as a whole compared to
roughly about 118% that we had seen one
year back. uh so so that's that's how we
have kind of headed into the current
year and that's also the reason why if
you would have seen for us I think
relative to the industry growth in motor
which has been a single-digit number of
roughly about 8% plus uh our growth in
motor has been 3.2%. Uh so that's again
a conscious call. Now how long can some
of these players subsist uh elevated
competitive intensity? The good news is
again each for each of the companies
there is public disclosures on their
outcomes in terms of combined ratios. Uh
some of the companies have uh while
majority of the companies we have the
full year numbers some companies
possibly could have announced numbers
even for quarter 1 as we speak. Uh so
clearly it seems to suggest that the
market continues to stay uh competitive
at 124% plus honestly we don't
necessarily kind of see uh at an
aggregate level to be very uh in that
sense gaining market share but within
the segments obviously we will kind of
grow where we think it is appropriate
and you know just to add to it uh as an
entity we have to show tremendous uh
patience uh uh if you you know go Back
in the history last year in H1 we had
gained then we kind of moderated and
that kind of moderation continued but we
know that uh if there is uh this kind of
intensity which is at a very different
level at this point of time we are
willing to uh uh wait it out uh and we
know those cycles will come where we'll
have our opportunity.
>> Yeah the the only thing is that the time
difference between cycle is quite short.
We are just getting one year of uh time
period where the competitive intensity
is okay but again then some new set of
players keep coming in and competitive
intensity increases then so it's not
that the two three year period there is
an upcycle in terms of uh reasonable
competitive intensity in the sector.
>> So fair point Nidesh but the fact of the
matter is if new players are coming they
also over long-term are expecting value
to be created and that's why we
attracting new players. Suppose there
are no new players coming also also
speaks of the fact that it's not doing
enough to attract capital. Uh I frankly
speaking my view to that decision is the
other way around and while that we would
love to have periods of you know uh 3
years 2 years as you mentioned uh but we
are very well equipped with a
multi-layer multi-product multi-
channelannel uh entity to manage these
kinds of variability. It's part of our
day-to-day existence. So at times from a
investor standpoint when you look at it
you wonder what's happening uh but as a
company you know and you see the numbers
from you know almost 2008 since the dear
thing happened the industry grew at 15%
and there about around that region but
we have probably grown at 13 and a half
almost a percentage and a half lower
over 2008 to 2025
uh but the CG profit growth of the
industry is 10 and probably 8 to 10% and
ours is almost 20%. So, uh we we back
ourselves in these times also. We would
love to have it the way you are saying.
Uh and this keeps us agile also. So, it
really doesn't worry us. But from your
standpoint, maybe you've got a point.
>> Sure. Sure. Thank you, sir. That's it
for my sir.
>> Thanks. Thanks.
>> Thank you.
Before we take the next question, a
reminder to participants that you may
press star and one to join the question
queue.
The next question is from Shria Shivani
from CLSA. Please go ahead.
>> Yeah, thank you for the opportunity. I
have two questions. First is on the uh
on the tragedy that you mentioned about.
I just wanted to understand has uh how
much of the claims have been uh uh
included in our uh performance this
quarter u with the hull losses have they
come in in this quarter or whether
they're going to come in the next
quarter and and I'm assuming there will
also be the personal accident bit uh so
that can be spread over some time I
understand but uh what has happened with
the aviation claim that I wanted to
understand uh second is on the long-term
policies. So, um I remember when this
was launched, there was a bit of
confusion or not confusion, the entire
way in which you are paying out
commissions to your distributor on the
long-term policy has also changed,
right? It'll be in that 1/3 one/3 format
or whatever whatever one by end format.
Uh so, has the behavior of the
distributor changed uh now that you're
69 months into it? Uh in which product
segments has it changed? Are some
product segments going to become
one-year product only instead of being
long-term? because of this policy change
some have a commentary around that those
are my two questions thank you
>> sure so uh so sh on the first one I
think again as as we have always said I
think it's very difficult to kind of
comment on uh individual claims I think
what we can say for sure is uh uh what
we have which is what we have been kind
of telling even earlier at the time when
the incident had happened uh given the
exposure that we have on the risk the
impact that we on that we have on the
net they have been completely kind of
provided credited for. So whatever
results that you see uh for quarter 1
factors in for the likely uh impact of
claims because honestly we will not know
when the estimate will eventually play
out and but I think it is well within
our ability to kind of absorb such
losses. That's primarily the business
that we are in and therefore to that
extent I think we have been able to kind
of provide for uh estimate this is uh
what we have as of 30th of June. uh to
your second point on uh long-term
policies. I think that's a flexibility
which I think clearly the market has uh
got. I think they have to decide in
terms of how do they want to incentivize
sourcing of policies. Uh as we speak,
you're right, we are into the third
quarter of the change. Uh market still
continues to exhibit differentiated
behavior in terms of some of them
exhibiting uh some of them kind of
seeking up front, some of them obviously
willing to kind of take over a period of
time. But if you ask us has there been
any major shift in the behavior relative
to what we had seen in Q3 and Q4 the
short answer is no. We have not
necessarily seen any major shift.
>> No. So, so there you know I'll I'll
quickly agree you that uh as Gopal said
the in certain constructs of long-term
uh there can be differential practice
but more so on the health side the
industry has been very unified in terms
of procuring uh long-term products. uh
initially in initial quarters we did see
the long-term sourcing getting impacted
for us because we had moved in line with
the regulation and others had not moved.
Uh but uh uh thank god in that sense
that now the practice has been uniformly
addressed by each one of them and from
there on we all see uh those numbers
reverting back. So to that extent here
it is uh a positive sign and uh the
partners are also finding an obvious
benefit of doing long-term fin policies
for the customers. Yes. So there is uh
normaly as far as health part of the
business is concerned on the retail
side.
>> Got it. Got it. And just on the first
question just a followup sorry uh how
much can we say is the uh is the total
combined ratio impact of that event
>> if there's a number
>> it is it's baked in and the fact that we
are not calling out otherwise we would
have called out that is something
>> usual share
>> and these are all estimates it is 55 but
uh it's uh addressed at this juncture
and we don't think it's appropriate to
call out that number separately Sure,
sure. It's okay. Um, thank you so much.
This was very useful. Thank you.
>> Thanks.
>> Thank you.
Next question is from Madukar Lada from
Noama Wealth Management. Please go
ahead.
>> Hi. Uh, thank you for taking my
question. Uh, so I I got disconnected in
between so maybe you know this a little
bit of a repeat. Uh so when you point
out comparative intensity
uh are we seeing some letdown in
comparative intensity due to
uh increased uh due to probably slightly
lower commission payouts and and because
EOM uh ratios remain high for a lot of
private uh guys. Uh and is it is it uh
is it is it because of that that the PSU
uh guys are increasing their share or is
it that the PSU PS PSU players pricing
itself is uh lower. Uh so so so that was
uh one question I mean you know why uh
and what is your expectation given that
you know now uh considerable amount of
time has passed and uh levels still
remain very high for uh a lot of the
guys. So um so what is your expectation
uh on on what can happen out there?
Thanks.
>> Yeah. So Madukar I think uh you are
absolutely right. I think what will be a
key key watch will be because this will
be the third year of the glide path that
the regulator had uh uh announced in
2024. Um even if you look at public
disclosure of all the companies which is
now out for FI25 as we speak. Uh it's
been about 50% of those companies are
still yet to tow the line within the
limit of 30 or 35% that the regulator
has stipulated. So hence that will be
something that's that will be closely
watched for. Uh clearly if you recollect
even last year when the regulator had
kind of looked at these companies they
have been asked to kind of give a clear
road map every quarter uh in terms of
what is their plan to achieve the
numbers uh within that limit of 30 or
35. So hence uh that will be clearly a
key determinant for most of the players
who have not necessarily yet met the
limits. uh what could happen in terms of
the competitive intensities again which
is what we responded in response to one
of the earlier calls which is to say
that I think players who have chosen to
be very aggressive in the last 2 three
years I think you can clearly see basis
their public disclosures their combined
ratios have got significantly impacted
and they are kind of clearly calibrating
growth numbers uh and hence of course
this is market so obviously there are
other set of players who choose to then
get a bit aggressive in entirety when
you put all of this together which is
where we called out industry combined
ratio still continues to remain elevated
at 113 and within that motor continues
to stay elevated at 124. Okay, how long
can this subsist? Honestly,
honestly we believe that you cannot
continue to lose 25 cents to a dollar uh
for a very long period of time.
And also Mazukar we also believe that
sometimes the solution you are seeking
on the EOM can be worse than the problem
and that's what Gopal is talking about.
You may want to chase uh business which
comes on a lower cost of acquisition at
a pricing which is very aggressive. Now
uh clearly if that's the solution
industry seeks uh to manage the um glide
path uh we will uh uh let them take that
call. Uh and to be fair, it's each one
to his own self on that. Uh but we'll
have to see how it plays out.
>> Right. Also, uh a followup uh see even
on health because of the long-term
policies
uh
how has industry sort of reacted in
terms of you know payment of uh
commission over there on the long-term
policies? That's uh one part of the
question. are most people uh you know uh
paying
>> the answer to that is no it's all one by
end we pay it on a yearly basis for
long-term health policy yeah
>> okay and on on renewal uh uh premiums uh
are we are we seeing some sort of
reduction in commission in in uh in
renewal
u because that was one of the
expectations also given it is and you
are spot on the uh definitely there's a
delta which exists between the fresh
sourcing of health and the renewal and
to be fair it's at the industry level
it's not only for IC lumbar
>> right um Got it got it thank you thanks
>> thank you mother thank you
>> thank you before we take the next
question a reminder to participants that
you may press star and one to ask
questions
the next question is from thean go from
city. Please go ahead.
>> Hi sir. Uh just two questions. One on
the group health part. Obviously u you
had kind of moderated your growth uh
trajectory somewhere towards the second
half of last year given the competitive
pressure. So I just wanted to get some
sense you know with your base kind of
normalizing from let's say the second
half of this year. I mean how do you see
the growth in that part of the segment
and the competitive intensity? Your loss
ratios have also kind of improved a
little bit on a YI basis. So how do you
see that segment behaving on the uh
corporate employer employee side and
second on the retail health portion of
the business? I mean um you I think this
question was asked previously also but
you know some bad calculation would
suggest that loss ratios on the backbook
are probably kind of operating at levels
which is which may be a little bit
higher than where the industry averages
are or maybe your stated averages of
around 65 to 70% steady state run rate
uh on the back book I'm just talking
about. So uh first of all is the
assumption correct and secondly I mean
uh if yes then how do you kind of uh aim
to recalibrate it?
>> So group health dependent I think uh I
think the call is pretty much similar to
what we spoke about on the rest of the
lines as well. Now this is a segment
where even Sanji had spoken about let's
say typically you get get to exhibit
maybe slightly chunky premiums but maybe
comes at a very relatively lower cost of
acquisition. So hence uh competitive
intensity continues to be higher on that
particular segment given the fact what I
spoke about on possibly some companies
wanting to ride this segment of business
to meet their uh expense of management
obligation within that is how we have
played out our growth so we will watch
for the development in case uh I think
if you see signs of easing for let's say
for companies who have to meet their
then obviously I think we are well
placed
to write the risk back. The good news as
we keep saying in our cont in our
business is majority of our risks are
one-year risks and therefore to that
extent our ability to possibly get it
back uh is always there with us and on
the second one I think
>> on the second one on the retail uh
health uh it was more with respect to
sorry loss issue
>> the law the loss issue which you're
talking I think Gopal has already spoken
about it uh we do believe that coming
quarters so this is uh if you know the
mix the way it comes out and the lot of
NEP that comes in and we have seen a bit
of a frequency spike here and there uh
but your backend calculations spot on
and we do believe that uh as a company
we would fare a lot better in coming
quarters as the growth of new would
start uh you know uh overall impacting
our loss ratios positively. So your
calculation is right and we are also
expecting a similar trend.
Uh got it. Uh thank you sir and all of
us.
>> Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
The next question is from Mirage who's
an individual investor
>> for call on hold. Please stay on.
>> Yeah. Mirage's lines seem to be on hold.
Uh that was the last question in queue.
I would now like to hand the conference
over to Mr. Sanjiv Mantri for any
closing comments.
>> Yeah. Right.
uh thank you so much uh for joining I
think you all had a long day backto-back
calls they were uh live then you sa
potential now it's Lombard so enough and
more calls uh
look I mean we've spoken overarchingly
what we want to focus on and uh we look
forward to interacting with each one of
you in the course of the quarter all the
best and take care of yourself thank you
so much
>> thank you very much
on behalf of ICIC Lumbar General
Insurance Company Limited. That
concludes the conference. Thank you for
joining us ladies and gentlemen. You may
now disconnect your lines.